we have to ask if after 13 years of
police work can he has simply become
desensitized to dangerous situations if
this is the case then his actions
wouldn't be brave there would be nothing
more than good training to help
ascertain if this is the case dr. Debbie
Marsden has devised a test to measure
our forces response to fear horses
character or find ways of picking horses
with the right character for particular
jobs a little test we did today were
just to show you some of the ways you
might look at and measuring how a horse
reacts to new and instinctively scary
things the test looks deceptively simple
honey and flash plus they're alternating
riders will take turns to walk past a
perceived danger like this scary
umbrella both riders and horses are
wearing heart monitors at first both
horses appear to be comfortable it's
only when the umbrella is left on the
ground that honey responds almost
dramatically flash meanwhile walked by
the umbrella with only a twitch of the
ear to indicate that he is even aware of
its presence it just looks as if he's
looking past it and he's not that
bothered by the umbrella however when
you look at heart rate you can see it
shuts up from about 28 beats per minute
to 78 beats per minute it's a huge
increase which means he was really
frightened by that umbrella but the big
surprise is that despite all of her
dramatics and his heart rate was nowhere
near as high as flashes you'll get some
horses who appear Raycom and you might
think oh that wash is really cool he's
not scared when you look at the heart
rates it can be very very high
alternatively you can have a horse who
makes a huge fuss and you might think
that horses heart rate must be even
higher what you're actually find is
these horses the heart rate doesn't go
up nearly so much
kind of horse you really want for police
work is the one who will keep on going
and you often find when you look at the
physiological measurement the heart rate
is very very high so that's a sign of
what I would call a very brave force
so is Kenny truly brave was he aware of
the clear and present danger he was in
during the riot to find out we adapted
dr. Martens tests to a stress based
training session that involved sirens
flares and fireworks any one of which
would send most horses bolting to the
next state remember what we're looking
for is a calm exterior and a high heart
rate
Kenny's resting heart rate is usually in
the mid-thirties but as the test
starting it shot up to the mid eighties
peaking at a hundred and four beats per
minute when the fireworks started to
explode and we could see Kenny's heart
rate going up he's absolutely terrified
and then his riders heart rate going up
as he worked very hard to ask Kenny
please don't run away
[Music]
[Applause]
I know you're at Kenny's very stressed
by the situation these trusts is writer
enough to say well if this is what we're
doing today and this is what situation
requires I will do it for me that's real
bravery it's not brave to do something
you're not scared of but it the really
brave thing is to to do something when
you are really really scared and for me
that's what makes Kenny very special
force
[Music]
you